We are really fortunate in this class
to be able to work with a real business
dataset from a real business.
That business is called Dognition.
And today we have Elliot Cohen,
producer at Dognition,
coming in to tell us about
the dataset he donated to us.
Hi Elliot.
>> Hey.
>> Thanks for coming in.
>> It's great to meet you.
>> Who's this?
>> This is Sizou.
>> Hi Sizou.
Thanks so much for coming in.
>> Oh, it was our pleasure.
>> Both of you have a seat.
Great, well thanks again.
So could you tell us a little bit about
Dognition and what role you play there?
>> Sure.
Dognition is a way for dog owners and
dog lovers all over the world
to learn more about their dogs.
We have taken laboratory games that are
done in labs and dog cognition labs all
over the country and all over the world,
and we have basically broken
them down to their components and
recreated them using household objects
that anyone can use finding whatever
they have in their house at home.
And then we aggregate all this data.
We have over 30,000 people who
are playing Dognition Games now.
And we look at it as a group, and now
we've recently published our first paper
which says that our data is
as good as laboratory data.
In terms of what the users, though, dog
owners who play Dognition get, you really
get to learn a lot more about your dog
that you wouldn't necessarily know.
I know a lot of people come in and
they think, oh gosh, what am I going to?
I know my dog's smart or
I know my dog's dumb.
But even Dr. Hare, who designed the games,
learned a lot more about his dog Tasmania.
So for example,
Tasmania he expected would have
a very active memory and would be
able to recall things very easily.
But it turns out, she doesn't really
rely on her memory that much,
she relies on him.
So when he's telling her sit and
then she walks away it's not because she's
disregarding what he's saying, she
actually just can't remember what he said.
So this is an example of
something you'll gain through
learning the proper skills
that your dog relies on.
So the Dognition games
themselves are broken down into
five dimensions of canine intelligence.
The dimensions are empathy, communication,
cunning, memory, and reasoning.
And then across these five dimensions we
have 20 games, or really 10 games and
10 warm ups.
Which then contribute to
those dimensional scores.
Which will determine not if your
dog uses memory or doesn't,
but what skills within
memory your dog relies on.
And then from these, your dog will
be placed into one of nine profiles.
And these profiles are a combination
of different traits.
And they, what we found, which was very
interesting to begin with is your breed
doesn't determine very much about what
profile your dog will end up being.
It's all about the individual way
your dog is solving problems.
>> So what does it actually look
like when you log in to the website?
>> So to log in to Dognition, you just
go to the log in button and wait for
it to load, and then you log in with
whatever your user name and password is.
And then, what you see right here,
this is what a completed dog sees.
So right in your home page, it shows you
all the dimensions you've completed.
It shows you your next
monthly game over here.
Here's your activities.
And here's your survey corner, which is
like 150 additional questions which people
really like to answer, because people
like to answer questions about their dog.
This is where the report would be.
So there are 15 pages of analysis and
then we go back to the games.
This is a completed dog and
all the completed dimensions and
all the completed results.
So if we looked at a incomplete dog, we
can see this is Kyle, up here in the top.
So the way we'd get here,
we go from the home page, right here,
you see it says, UP NEXT, Play The Games.
And here we are.
This is the game that's next.
It shows you the completed
games on the side.
Cunning's the game he's up to.
On the top it says click play, so you
click play and go to right into the games.
Up here ahead you see
the games you haven't yet
unlocked to play because you
need to play them in order, and
it reminds you that you need to complete
them previous dimension in order to play.
>> So what kind of subscription
models do you have?
>> Dognition offers three types
of subscriptions as ways to play
the Dognition games.
We have the core Dognition assessment and
this is 10 games and
10 tests, or warm-ups, that contribute
to your dog's Dognition profile,
which is one of those nine things that
ends up that your dog is afterwards.
On top of this, we have the Dognition
yearly and monthly subscriptions.
And these are exciting additional
things that you can do with your
dog after you complete the assessment,
which really are two things.
You have 12 additional games
over the course of the year,
as well as 12 additional activities
that are created by experts or trainers.
And these games unlock, games and
activities unlock on a monthly basis
from when you sign up, one per month.
>> Okay.
So if I understand correctly,
each customer has the opportunity to
complete 20 tests in the first month and
they do it in the same order each time,
one by one as you make them available.
Is that right?
>> The Dognition games were designed to
go in this particular order and starting
with empathy, you go into communication
and cunning and memory and reasoning.
The reason for this was two-fold.
One, the empathy games
are actually our simplest games.
They don't require anything other
than you and your dog and for
the eye contact and
you require treats, but there's
no training that you need to do in terms
of getting a dog used to doing these.
It's just you and your dog hanging out.
This is helpful because you
don't need to worry about if
your dog is over excited,
it will be a calming experience, and
that will really get your dog in the mood
to play the games going forward.
After that the other thing that happen is
that games full to get more complicated,
so we've found be better to ramp it up.
>> Did you ever try making a test
available in the different order?
>> About six months after launch for
Dognition,
we were looking closely at how
our product was performing
in terms of completion rates and we
realized, it wasn't so much we realized,
we weren't happy with how
far people were progressing.
There was a very large
drop-off in the beginning and
not as many people as we wanted were
getting all the way through to the end.
To try to address this, we,
our hypothesis was that people
weren't enjoying the empathy dimension as
much, because while it was very easy and
it was easy to get people into the games,
it wasn't exactly exciting.
And we knew this because we designed and
implemented an additional
enjoyment/surprise survey.
So using the information we got from that,
we developed an alternate hypothesis which
was instead of leading with empathy,
we would lead with the memory dimension.
Which was scored as more enjoyable and
very surprising in terms of
the expectation versus what happened.
The drawback to this, which we realized
after, is because while the overall
completion rate and advancement didn't
change, it did change how far people got.
Some more people got through
the first dimension but
that didn't mean they got further.
And the draw back of the memory
dimension was that it's a very
technical dimension in terms of what
the instructions are asking you to do.
And if the dog isn't using a strategy
that results in them getting a treat,
then they aren't going to
get any treats at all.
So that get's very frustrating for
the owners and the dogs.
So that's some insight into
one of our earlier tests.
>> So now here's the million
dollar question Elliot.
What business problem does that mission
have that you think we might be able to
help you with?
>> The mission as a product and
a company is really broken into
two components, at the most basic.
We have what we call the brochure,
which is the outside non logged in version
of what you see which is
our website you go through.
You have the homepage, how it works and
then a thousand other pages trying to give
you more information if you're interested.
And then we have
the actual product itself,
which is after you log in,
the issues to do with playing the games or
interacting with the trainers or the
experts or any number of things in there.
So that gives us two very distinct areas
of development that we can focus on.
At Dognition,
we have an interesting problem
where we actually care a lot about what
our customers do after they purchase.
We don't, once you give us your
money that's fantastic, but
we actually want you to do a lot
with Dognition as a product.
And this comes in to we
really want you to finish.
If you don't finish, then we only get
a tiny amount of your data and the overall
goal of Dognition is to publish papers and
learn more about your dog.
And your contributions are helpful
in keeping us running but
at the end of the day, if we don't have
your data then we don't have anything.
So one of the main things we're
looking is ways to increase,
in some respects their completion rate.
But really just get people further
along in their Dognition experience and
through the games.
We do, can do a lot partial analysis or
we'll look at just a people who have
completed the first section of the game or
just the PQ or just anything like that.
But really what we're really looking for
is this huge comparison that could we
could look for your breed or any number
of things across all of the games.
So anything that we can find about
some insight to push users and
their dogs to complete a bit more would
be super helpful from our perspective.
>> So do you have any tips for a class
as we tackle this business problem?
>> Actually I do have a tip in
terms of doing the data analysis.
The most important thing that we've
found is that you have to go on every
test with a question.
You need to have a hypothesis and
you need to know exactly what
you're doing to test that.
because if you're just going in and
looking,
either you're going to find things that
don't matter, which is useless, or,
you're not going to find anything,
which is equally useless.
So, find a testable
hypothesis before you go in,
is the only really
important thing I'd say.
>> Great, so
do yo think you'd be willing to show
us an example of one of your tests?
>> Yeah, sure So I'm going to show guys,
the memory pointing game.
I think this is a great example
of how Dognition is trying to see
what strategy a dog uses.
Not that there's a right or
a wrong answer.
This is a pretty far to the games,
it's near the end of the memory dimension.
And what this will do is
I'll put down some cups and
I'll hide a piece of food
under one of the cups and
then I will stand up and point to
the cup where I didn't hide the treat.
And this will directly point my
information the dog is learning from
my actions versus where it knows the treat
is and where it remembers that it is.
So let's see what happens, so we do is we
put the two cups down, the dog is across.
Sizou, show the treat,
put it under a cup and then get the treat.
So the side that she goes
to first is what she gets.
So she knew that that's where treat was
even though I pointed to the other side.
>> What make Dognition excited
to share their data with us and
to be part of this course?
>> One of the things that Dognition
is really big on is education and
we want to share information about dogs.
And if we have enough data and
we have enough experience we can
share some data or info about how to
make data driven decisions then,
we ended up being very happy to help.
The one thing that was really important
from our perspective, when you're sharing
your data, is that we take care of
ourselves and we take care of our users.
So, all of the data that
we shared was anonymized.
There was no reference to individual
users and no references to addresses or
emails or anything at all that
would identify an individual
has been scrubbed from the data so
there's no tracing back to anyone.
>> Now that you have learned about
the business problem we have to solve
together, go to the course website to find
out some more details about the specific
fields we have in the database set that
Elliot and Dognition so kindly donated.
In the mean time, I suggest you go
check out the Dognition website.
It's really a cool company, and
I think you'll really get excited
about solving their business problems.